Hey Cloud Gurus!

I've been studying for the AWS Solutions Architect Professional (SAP) exam for over 6 months after earning 8 other AWS certifications. I took over 30 full length practice tests across acloud.guru, Whizlabs, and the official AWS practice test. My average on those tests was lower than I would've liked around 73%. However, my Solutions Architect Associate (SAA) certification was scheduled to expire in January 2021 so I reluctantly booked my exam anyway. I studied for over an hour every night leading up to my exam, yet could not raise my average. I kept tripping over the same types of services that I never use like Active Directory (AD) and Internet of Things (IoT).

I was starting to think that I would only pass the exam if the questions dealt to me where on topics that I was more comfortable with, something like a crap shoot. Still I didn't give up and studied tirelessly. I watched Scott Pletcher's concepts, exam tips, and pro tips literally 10x the nights before my exam including in the parking lot of the exam center.

So the exam day came, I made sure to get plenty of sleep and woke up 4 hours early so I could get some light studying in before heading off. I completed the exam with 50 minutes to spare scoring 940 of 1000. Honestly, I was shocked the real exam seemed so much easier than the practice tests I've been struggling with. Although, the exam stayed more in my comfort zone there were a couple topics that I wasn't prepared for.

Additionally, I heard horror stories of novel-like questions on the exam and yes I got some superfluous questions, but the majority were not that bad. I did see a new format of questions appear quite regularly at least for me in this syntax. Sometimes these questions listed like 8 or 9 criteria items, which you had to choose the best answer out of very different options. Don't misunderstand... this exam is still incredibly difficult; I just found it different than others have described.

Concept

Criteria 1

Criteria 2

...

Criteria N

Now the juicy part! These are the topics I saw on the exam:

(Low ~= < 4 Questions)

(Med ~= < 10 Questions)

(High ~= > 10 Questions)

API Gateway (Low)

@connections

Quotas

Types REST, HTTP, WebSocket

AppSync GraphQL (Med)

What it does?

When to use it?

I don't recall this in study material so was caught off guard.

CloudFormation (Low)

Change Sets

Drift Detection

Stack Sets

DataSync (Low)

What it does?

When to use?

Deployment Methodologies (DevOps Engineer Professional Territory?) (Low)

Blue/Green Method

Canary Method

CodeDeploy

Streaming Services (Med)

DynamoDB Streams

Kinesis Data Streams

Kinesis Data Analytics

Kinesis Consumer Library (KCL)

Kinesis Producer Library (KPL)

Global Solutions (High) <-- Important

Aurora Global Databases

CloudFront

DynamoDB Global Tables

Cross-Region Replication for AMI, EC2, EBS, RDS, S3

Promoting Read-Replicas to Master

Route 53 Routing Policies

Active/Active vs. Active/Passive vs. Pilot Light

Organizations and Service Catalog (Med)

IAM across different Organizations

Service Control Policies (SCP)

Service Catalog for Compliance/Governance

Service Catalog Permissions with IAM

Migration (High) <-- Important

Application Discovery Service

Database Migration Service (DMS)

Direct Connect (DX)

Service Migration Service (SMS)

Migration Hub

S3 Transfer Acceleration

Snowball

Storage Gateway

VPN Connections

Encrypted Migrations

Offline Migrations

Compliance with S3 (Med)

S3 Object Lock

S3 Versioning

S3 Compliance

S3 Glacier Vault Policies

Networking (Med)

VPC Endpoints

Private Link for Private SAAS

Route 53 Resolvers

NAT Gateway

Internet Gateway

Systems Manager (High) <-- Important

Run Command

Patch Manager

Session Manager

SSM Agent

Hope this helps! Let me know if you have any questions.
